how do you do I have a brief opening
statement here before I take your
questions
yesterday's Secretary of the Treasury
Donald Regan sent to the Congress a
request to raise the debt ceiling to
nine hundred and eighty five billion
dollars this represents a dramatic jump
of 50 billion dollars over the previous
debt ceiling the administration took
this action with great regret because
it's clear that the massive deficits our
government runs is one of the root
causes of our profound economic problems
and for too many years this process has
come too easily for us we've lived
beyond our means and then financed our
extravagance on the backs of the
American people the clear message I
received in the election campaign is
that we must gain control of this
inflationary monster let me briefly
review for the American people what
we've already done within moments of
taking the oath of office I placed a
freeze on the hiring of civilian
employees in the federal government
two days later I issued in order to cut
down on government travel reduce the
number of consultants to the government
stop the procurement of certain items
and called on my appointees to exercise
restraint in their own offices yesterday
I announced the elimination of remaining
federal controls on US oil production
and marketing today I'm announcing two
more actions to reduce the size of the
federal government first I'm taking
major steps toward the elimination of
the Council on wage and price stability
this council has been a failure it has
been totally ineffective in controlling
inflation and it's imposed unnecessary
burdens on labor and business therefore
I'm now ending the wage and price
program of the Council
I am eliminating the staff that carries
out its wage pricing activities and I'm
asking Congress to rescind its budget
saving the taxpayers some one and a half
million dollars a year
my second decision today is a directive
ordering key federal agencies to freeze
pending regulations for 60 days this
action gives my administration time to
start a new regulatory oversight process
and also prevents certain last-minute
regulatory decisions of the previous
administration the so-called midnight
regulations from taking effect without
proper review and approval all of us
should remember that the federal
government is not some mysterious
institution composed prised of buildings
files and paper the people are the
government what we create we ought to be
able to control I do not intend to make
wildly skyrocketing deficits and runaway
government's simple facts of life in
this administration as I've said our
ills have come upon us over several
decades and they will not go away in
days or weeks or months but I want the
American people to know that we have
begun now I'll be happy to take your
questions Kevin well your policy toward
Iran be one of revenge or reconciliation
and what the United States honor the
recent commitments to Iran especially
since you approved of most of them
during the campaign well I'm not
certainly not thinking of revenge and I
don't know whether reconciliation would
be possible with the president
government or absence of a government in
Iran I think that the United States will
honor its the obligations as a matter of
fact the most important of those were
already put into effect by the preceding
administration in negotiating the
release we are however studying because
there were four major agreements and
there were nine executive orders and we
are studying thoroughly what is a pretty
complex matter we've discovered with
regard to whether they are in keeping
with international and national our own
national laws and so I won't be able to
really answer your questions on
specifics until we've completed that
study
the Treasury secretary said Monday that
your budget cuts will be of a much
higher magnitude than most people
thought they would be you said there
would be across the board now that
you've had some time to study the budget
can you say where these where these cuts
will be made what program will feel the
cuts the most they'll be made every
place what we meant by it may be across
the board was the wrong decision
although it describes it what I meant
was that no one is exempt from being
looked at for areas in which we can make
cuts in in spending and yes they
probably are going to be bigger than
anyone has ever attempted because
there's this administration did not come
here to be a caretaker government and
just hope we could go along the same way
and maybe do it a little better we think
the time has come where there has to be
a change of direction of this country
and it's going to begin with reducing
government spending mr. president in
your welcoming address to the freed
Americans you sounded a warning of Swift
and effective retribution in future
terrorist situations what kind of action
are you prepared to take to back up this
hard rhetoric well that's a question
that I don't think you you can or should
answer in as to specifics this is a big
and it's a power of a nation it has a
lot of options open to it and to try and
specify now just particularly what you
should do I think is one of the things
that's been wrong people have gone to
bed in some of these countries that have
done these things to us in the past
confident that they can go to sleep wake
up in the morning in the United States
wouldn't have taken any action what I
meant by that phrase was that anyone who
does these things violates our rights in
the future is not going to be able to go
to bed with that confidence well mr.
president you campaigned rather
vociferously against the softube treaty
saying it was slanted again slanted
toward this
Union yet I noticed your Secretary of
State Mr Hague now seems to suggest that
for the time being at least the United
States will abide by the limits of
assault to treaty and he hopes the
Soviet Union will - how long you intend
that the United States should abide by
the terms of assault agreement which you
consider inequitable and what you
consider its greatest inequities to be
well the salt Trudy fair treaty first of
all I think permits a continued buildup
on both sides of strategic nuclear
weapons but but in the main thing
authorizes an immediate increase in
large numbers of Soviet warheads
there is no verification as to the
number of warheads on the missile no
method for us to do this I don't think
that a treaty salt means strategic arms
limitation that actually permits a
buildup on both sides of strategic
nuclear weapons is can properly be
called that and I have said that when we
can and I am willing for our people to
go in to negotiate or let me say
discussions leading to negotiations that
we should start negotiating on the basis
of trying to effect an actual reduction
in the numbers of nuclear weapons that
would then be real strategic arms
limitation and I happen to believe also
that you can't sit down at the table and
just negotiate that unless you take into
account in consideration at that table
all the other things that are going on
in other words I believe in linkage mr.
president what do you see is the
long-range intentions of the Soviet
Union do you think for instance the
Kremlin is bent on world domination that
might lead to a continuation of the Cold
War or do you think that under other
circumstances they taught is possible
well so far d'etat has been a one-way
street and Soviet Union is used to
pursue its own aims I don't have to
think of an answer as to what I think
their intentions are they have repeated
it I know of no leader of the Soviet
Union
since the revolution in including the
present leadership that has not more
than once repeated in the various
communist Congress as they hold their
determination that their goal must be
the promotion of world revolution and a
one-world socialist or communist state
whichever word you want to use now as
long as they do that and as long as they
at the same time have openly and
publicly declared that the only morality
they recognize is what will further
their cause
meaning they reserved under themselves
the right to commit any crime to lie to
cheat in order to attain that and that
is moral not immoral and we operate on a
different set of standards I think when
you do business with them even at a date
aunt you keep that in mind let me take
someone in lady mr. president what's
your opinion of American companies that
now want to resume business with Iran my
opinion of American companies that want
to resume business with Iran I hope
they're going to do it by long distance
we wouldn't want to go back to having
just a different cast of characters but
the same show going on I can understand
that particularly in the field of energy
they're there wanting to do that but we
are we're urging that people think long
and hard before they travel to Iran
because we don't think their safety can
be guaranteed there we Americans are
still incarcerated in Vietnam
can you tell us the status of their
cases and whether the administration is
doing anything to get them back I have
told our people about those three they
knew about them of course but have told
them that yes we continue and we want to
get them back also now I know I've been
staying down front here too much I I've
got to prove I can look at the back rows
there okay mr. president some
administrative officials have promised
adherence to the civil rights laws which
are on the books but there has been
considerable discussion about
dismantling the affirmative action
aspect of that give those laws to some
people greater meaning and I'm wondering
mr. president if there will be a retreat
in the federal government on the
government's advocacy affirmative action
programs generally and in federal hiring
of blacks and Hispanics specifically no
there will be no retreat this
administration is going to be dedicated
to equality I think we've made great
progress in the civil rights field I
think there are some things however that
have that may not be as useful as they
once were or that may even be distorted
in the practice such as some affirmative
action programs becoming quota systems
and I'm old enough to remember when
quotas existed in the United States for
the purpose of discrimination and I
don't want to see that happen again
well we haven't dealt with that problem
yet we thought all would do for a
starter but I can't really answer your
question that will be a matter for
discussion in future King cabinet
meeting slow and mr. president during
the campaign you repeatedly talked about
the unfairness of the grain embargo as
you saw it you have second thoughts now
or will you lift the grain embargo but
with the grain embargo my quarrel with
it from the first was that I thought it
was it was asking only one group of
Americans not to participate the farmers
it was not you only have two choices
with an embargo you either lift it or
you broaden it
and we have not made a decision except
that at the request of Secretary of
Agriculture John block I have taken the
matter of the embargo out of you might
say the discussions of the National
Security Council and it next week is
going to is on the agenda for a full
cabinet meeting as to what our course
will be so I can't answer what we do
about it until next week it as I say it
was asking one group of Americans to
bear the burden and I have always
thought was more of a kind of gesture
than it was a something real yes ma'am
for you and the federal government to
intercede in the Atlanta case books of
seventeen missing or black children just
a few minutes before I came in here that
message was handed to me that the
Atlanta mayor wanted to talk and we are
going to get someone in touch with him
immediately now you recognize of course
that possibly civil rights would be the
only basis upon which we could have any
jurisdiction down there in this if for
FBI for example on any other thing they
there's been no evidence of crossing
state lines or anything and yet we want
to be helpful because that is a most
tragic case and so we will be meeting on
that very shortly mr. president when the
Jamaican Prime Minister was here
yesterday mr. CIA guy he suggested
publicly that now might be a good time
for you as the new president to have a
foreign policy initiative for Latin
America and for the Caribbean do you
intend to follow that suggestion and if
so how would your policies differ from
those of former President Carter but I
think we've seen a great reverse in the
Caribbean situation and it came about
through Prime Minister CEA's election it
was the turnover or turnaround of a
nation that had gone
but uh certainly in the direction of the
communist movement
kind of a was a protege of Castro and
his election was great greeted by me
with great enthusiasm because it
represented the people by their vote
having experienced that kind of
government turned another direction and
I think this opens the door for us to
have a policy in the Mediterranean of
bringing them back in those countries
that might have started in that
direction or keeping them in the Western
world on the free world and so we are
looking forward to cooperation with
Prime Minister si Agha president I think
you've met Caribbean and that last
answer oh I'm in Caribbean I'm sorry
what do you intend to do with the
president about the draft registration
law that was passed during President
Carter's administration and in view of
your opposition to it and the campaign
how is that consistent with your avowed
intention to strengthen our national
defenses well to answer the last part
first I just didn't feel that the
advanced registration on all the
evidence we could get would materially
speed up the process if an emergency
required the draft it did create a
bureaucracy it caused certainly some
unrest and dissatisfaction and we were
told that it would only be a matter of
several days if we had to call up in a
draft that we could do that several days
earlier with the registration then we
would be able to if there was no
registration at all we this is one
that's something to be looked at further
down I've only been here nine days and
most of these nine days have been spent
in cabinet meetings on the economy
getting ready to send our package up to
the hill and so I I just have to tell
you that we will be dealing with that
meet with that and make a decision on
what to do with it down the road
someplace Gary president speaking of
your economic package but you give us
your thoughts on an effective date for
the tax cuts that you plan to recommend
in your economic recovery print plan and
specifying whether you prefer one
effective date for business and another
for personal cuts or whether you'd like
to combine them I'd like to see it all
go forward all at once as to date I know
they've been talked about whether it
should be retroactive back or whether it
should be as of that minute that to me
isn't as important as getting four
individuals the principle of a ten
percent cut for each of three years in
place and the business taxes also so
that we can all look forward with some
confidence of stability in the program
and we're going to strive for that and I
can't really answer you about what the
date will be until we submit the package
I know you said earlier that you were
not thinking of revenge toward Iran but
does that preclude any punishment
whatsoever
well again I have to ask your
forbearance and wait until we've
finished our study of this whole
situation as to what we're going to do I
I don't think any of us have a friendly
feeling toward the people that have done
what they have done but I think it's too
complex for me to answer until we've had
time to really study this are you would
you go so far as to encourage American
businesses to resume commercial traffic
at this point no mr. president you
intend to follow through with your
campaign pledges to abolish the
department's of energy and education
I have not retreated from that at all
yes the process however that I have
asked for is for both the Secretary Bell
of Education and secretary Jim Edwards
of of energy to reorganize to produce
the most effective streamlining of the
Department of their departments that
they can in education to look at the
appropriate role of the federal
government in education if there is one
and to report back and then we will
decide making our recommendations much
the same thing holds true with the
Department of Energy the reason for this
being that they while there were new
cabinet level agencies they incorporated
government functions and programs that
had been going on in them and they came
under that umbrella and we have to find
out which of those functions that have
been a federal government function
continuing where they would best fit but
yes I'm determined that and I believe
that it was wrong to have created the
two agencies to begin with their
president during the campaign your chief
farm spokesman put you on record has
for the time being continuation of the
dairy price support level where it had
been within the last couple of days your
budget director and your Secretary of
Agriculture have indicated that the
dairy program is too expensive it should
be cut back but you reconcile those
differences of approach for us well I
could only tell you that this again
something to wait for the next cabinet
meeting all of these things that are
worked out between the appropriate
cabinet members and our director of
office and of OMB and then they come to
the cabinet for full discussions so that
others who have an interest in this and
can have their input and so I can't ask
you because that has not yet come to the
cabinet of the you you said Iran the
boarder between Iran and the Soviet
Union well I think one of the first
things that has to happen is for
stability has got to be in Iran itself
to establish a government that can speak
as a government for Iran and part of our
problem in all these long 444 days has
been the inability of anyone seemingly
to speak for that nation to have a
government now I think that any country
would want to help another if they
really showed an intent to have a
government that would abide by
international law and do what they could
to help them in that regard but until
such a thing appears apparent there I
don't know that there's anything we can
do
but no no I young lady
intention to signal the world that this
country will respond with swift
retribution in cases of international
terrorism in the future why is it your
policy not to retaliate against Iran
well what good would just revenge do and
what what what form would that take I I
don't think revenge is worthy of us on
the other hand I don't think we act as
if this never happened and I'd rather
wait until as I say we complete this day
who said I know I've been on this side
too long but someone said porfavor and
when I listen the other day viva la la
Blanca yes soon the president isn't true
that were Hispanic are given the
opportunity to serve this country they
said the country was Dillion and this
fact in view at least on this beautiful
when are you going for point
hispanic-american conserved in your
administration policy making position
we are definitely recruiting and
definitely trying to do that I want an
administration that will be
representative with the country as a
whole and please don't judge us on the
fact that we have only picked a hundred
there will be 1700 positions to fill in
the executive branch in the White House
as a senior staff and staff and the
Personnel Committee in our
administration that is talent hunting
and looking for these people contains
members of the minorities Hispanics and
even a majority of women and we we want
that very much so don't judge us now but
the tip of the iceberg wait till it's
all in
president yes thank you mr. president
Paul Volcker the chairman of the Federal
Reserve Board has been implementing
policies that are exactly opposite in
basic thrusts from what you recommend he
has been squeezing the productive sector
of the economy
in favor of the speculative sector now I
mean frankly mr. president there are
important sections of the American
economy that are about to go under and
won't even have an opportunity to
benefit from the programs that you're
putting forward because of the Federal
Reserve's policy I have a two-part
question first of all though do you
think that objective economic conditions
justify the interest rate levels that we
now have and I don't mean for your
answer to imply a criticism of the Fed
it's to just support objective questions
and the second question is are you
concerned that there might be a sabotage
so to speak up to top your policies by
programs that the Federal Reserve might
be putting forward no I'm not concerned
that there would be sabotage I've met
with mr. Volker and not with the
intention of trying to dictate because
it is an independent agency and I
respect that but I think that we have to
face the fact that interest rates are
not in themselves a cause of inflation
they're a consequence and when you have
as we have had double-digit inflation
back to back for two solid years now
that last time that happened was in
World War one and when you have
double-digit inflation there that way
there is no question that interest rates
are going to have to go up and follow
that inflation rate and so the answer to
the interest rates is going to be our
program of reducing government spending
tied to the reduction of the tax rates
that we spoke enough to bring down
inflation and you'll final find that
interest rates come down we do want from
the Fed and would ask for a moderate
policy of
money supply increasing relative to
legitimate growth all of these things
have to work together but I I don't
think that if they're just deliberately
raises interest rates the reason that
we've got to tie taxes and we have to
cut ties spending together is we've for
all these decades we've talked and we've
talked about solving these problems and
we've act as if the two were separate so
one year we fight inflation and then
unemployment goes up and then the next
year we fight unemployment and inflation
goes up it's time to keep the two
together where they belong and that's
what we're going to do yes sir a number
of conservative leaders among them some
of yours conscious tanned most durable
supporters such as senator Jesse Helms
are very concerned about some of your
appointments the basis of the concern is
that many people who have been longtime
Reaganites and supporters of yours do
not seem to be able to get jobs like
Bill Van Cleave who played a key role on
your defense transition team whereas
other individuals who have not supported
you throughout the years or your
philosophy like mr. Terrell Bell the
Secretary of Education who was for the
establishment of the department which
you've said is going to abolish when mr.
Frank Carlucci deputy secretary of
defense who was not a supporter of yours
that they have gotten jobs my question
is why are these individuals in your
administration why is it mr. Van Cleave
and how much of a problem do you think
this conservative dissatisfaction with
your appointments is the only problem
that I've had that is more difficult
than knowing which hand and raised a
point to hear and believe me it bothers
me I go home feeling guilty and all the
hands that I couldn't point to the only
problem greater I've had is in the
selection of personnel now in many
instances some of the people that have
been mentioned whose names have been
mentioned by others did not want a
position in the administration helped
work very hard and wanted nothing for it
but you also have to recognize there
aren't that many positions after all
look how many votes ahead
you can't reward them all but - thank
you all right thank you all